--- 
title: The Apple Store and Generosity
category: article
link: 
date: 06/08/2011
timestamp: 2011-08-06 01:24:33.165734 -06:00

I have wanted to get my wife an iPad for nearly two months. Of course, I would have enjoyed one too, but it would really be for her. Throughout the day I had been thinking of how miserable she must be stuck in that small hospital room with very little to do. To make matters worse, she was stuck in that room with our anxious two-year [daughter](http://brionni.org) (who had been diagnosed with cancer about three months prior) who was constantly begging to leave the small room. See, the chemotherapy had wiped out our daughter's immune system, and she was under strict orders not to leave the room.

As I considered my wife and daughter's predicament, I decided I was going to get them an iPad on my way home from work. This wasn't something that was in the family budget (our finances had gotten pretty tight since the first few hospital bills had rolled in) but I figured it was the least I could do to help my wife pass the time a bit more happily in that hospital cell.

The rain had eased a little bit as I pulled into the mall parking lot. I jogged to the entrance I knew was closest to the Apple Store and quickly navigated to my destination. It was common to find the store busy with activity and today was no different. I was in a hurry so I found the closest employee who didn't seem to occupied and told him I wanted to buy an iPad. Kelby asked me if I knew which one I wanted. I responded that I wanted the the black, 16GB wifi-only version with a gray polyurethane Smart Cover. He informed me that they had what I wanted in stock and that an associate would bring it to us. We began to chat a little as he filled out my order. He asked if I was buying it for myself or if it was for someone else. I responded that it was for my wife. He then asked what she would be primarily using it for (at this point I thought he was going to suggest some apps or try to sell me a few accessories). I hurriedly explained that she would be using it mostly for web browsing, book reading and occasionally movie watching; anything that would help pass the time during her frequent hospital visits. Kelby then asked what I thought was a personal question, but he was so sincere it didn't bother me. He asked "Why is your wife frequently at the hospital?" I gave him the quick answer I had given a million times the last three months describing our daughter's situation. He casually nodded his head and continued with the order.

At this point, another employee had brought out the iPad and cover. Kelby scanned both items it with his iPhone (iPod Touch?) and told me to wait for a few moments because he had to check with his manager about something. When he returned he had a curious smile on his face. Kelby casually told me the price and asked me if it was ok (the price he mentioned was *extremely* lower than retail). I honestly hadn't caught on to what he was doing and asked if there was a mistake. With a grin on his face he told me that this iPad was special because it was for my wife and daughter. He said that he had already gotten his manager to approve the discount and that they were happy to help us out any way they could.

I was in complete shock. It took everything I had not to breakdown in tears right in the store. Kelby had been so nonchalant about the whole thing, it was like he did this everyday. He finished my order and shook my hand. I told him that I would never forget what he had done and that I was going to bring my family in to meet him as soon as our daughter's health improved. As I returned to my car I asked myself if there was any other retail store that would have done something like this? Honestly, the answer was no. I was purchasing one of the most in-demand products in the country. There was very little incentive for Apple, or Kelby, to hand one out at such a steep discount. I guess it speaks volumes about the amount of freedom with which Apple empowers its employees. This freedom allows them to make bold decisions and better server their customers.

This act of kindness and generosity may seem little to some, but it meant the world to me and my family. The discount wasn't what made the experience so special, but rather the manner in which Kelby conducted himself and how easily it was for him to help out a clearly ragged-looking customer. I have always been a fan of Apple and its products, but after today I know I will be a life-long advocate of the company. 

I am writing this from the recliner next to my daughter's bed in the hospital. She has been playing with the iPad all day and can't get enough of [The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore](http://morrislessmore.com/). I know this will make the next two years of weekly hospital visits a bit less painful. Kelby, we will never forget what you did for us.

