--- 
title: Why platforms like iOS and Android are outpacing the web
category: link
link: http://joehewitt.com/post/web-technologies-need-an-owner/
date: 27/09/2011
timestamp: 2011-09-27 05:58:37.383468 -06:00

Apparently, it's all about ownership. Joe Hewitt:

> The Web has no one who can ensure that the platform acquires cutting edge capabilities in a timely manner (camera access, anyone?). The Web has no one who can ensure that the platform makes real developers happy and productive. The Web has no one to ensure that it is competitive with other platforms, and so increasingly we are seeing developers investing their time in other platforms that serve their needs better.

We've heard this argument before, but what makes it different is that it is coming from the guy who brought us Firefox, Firebug and the iOS Facebook app. That is a very prestigious pedigree. Firefox changed the way we view the web and the Facebook app for iOS is the most popular app of all time.

Joe's argument is that centralized app platforms such as iOS, Android and Windows will be the dominant place for new technology and development whereas the web will stagnate and revert to it's older days.

> My prediction is that, unless the leadership vacuum is filled, the Web is going to retreat back to its origins as a network of hyperlinked documents.

I think this is a huge problem for the web as an "app platform." Apple is the only hardware manufacturer to place web apps on nearly equal footing as native apps ("Add to homescreen"). The missing ingredient from all app platforms is native web libraries for some of the lower level APIs like the aforementioned camera access.

Personally, I think this is a very sad and pessimistic outlook for the web. I see things much brighter and have faith that the web will always be a competitive platform for developers. If you've ever used the mobile version of [Basecamp](http://basecamphq.com/mobile "Basecamp mobile") you know there is potential for rich applications based purely on web technologies.

