--- 
category: link
timestamp: 2012-04-16 17:10:43.302456 -06:00
title: How Valve is Different
date: 16/04/2012
link: http://blogs.valvesoftware.com/abrash/valve-how-i-got-here-what-its-like-and-what-im-doing-2/

This is the most fascinating article I have read all month. Michael Abrash describes what it's like to work at Valve and why they are a leader in the gaming industry.

> I’ve worked at a lot of companies and in a lot of situations over the last 30 years. I’ve been a programming consultant and magazine and book author. I’ve worked alone and with a partner and at various companies on games. I’ve worked on operating systems, drivers, firmware, natural language parsing, consoles, and processor design. I’ve consulted and worked at a series of startups and small companies, both hardware and software, I’ve worked at Microsoft, I’ve worked at Id, and I’ve worked at RAD Game Tools. They’ve all been interesting, they’ve all been great learning experiences, and some of them have been truly remarkable places. In short, I’ve seen a lot of what tech has to offer.

> Valve is different.

*Different*. That is a label often attributed to another successful company that may or may not rhyme with Snapple&trade;. Learning to do things *differently* allows successful companies to break from the mold and facilitate the creative process. Michael talks briefly about the success of the PC game *Doom*. In the early 90's, Valve founder Gabe Newell (while still at Microsoft) commissioned a survey of what was actually installed on user's PCs. According to the survey the second most widely installed software was Windows. What was number one? Id's *Doom*.

It's hard to believe a small 10-person company could manage to get it's game installed on more computers than the largest software company in the world. What made Id so special?

*Creativity*.

According to Michael, this survey led Gabe to the realization that there was something fundamentally wrong with idea of hierarchical management in business. **It stifles creativity**. It's only real strength is encouraging people to be efficient at performing the same task over and over, completely devoid of creativity.

So how is Valve different? The company is completely free of any formal management or hierarchy. Crazy? Maybe. Effective? Absolutely.

> That any part of the company can change direction instantly at any time, because there are no managers to cling to their people and their territory, no reorgs to plan, no budgets to work around.

Imagine how companies like RIM, Yahoo, Aol or even Microsoft could be different in this type of environment. An environment where "co-CEOs" would never exist. There would never be political infighting about which products should be developed or who should take credit. A business that encourages creativity from the bottom up is a company that can be successful.

There is another aspect of Valve that is different and it is perhaps the most significant contributor to Valve's success.

> Hardest of all to believe is the level of trust. Trust is pervasive. All of Valve’s source code is available to anyone in Perforce, and anyone at Valve can sync up and modify anything. Anyone can just up and work on whatever they think is worth doing; Steam Workshop is a recent instance of someone doing exactly that. Any employee can know almost anything about how the company works and what it’s doing; the company is transparent to its employees. Unlike many organizations, Valve doesn’t build organizational barriers to its employees by default; it just trusts them and gets out of their way so they can create value.

Awesome.

I encourage you to read the entire article. There is a bit about "wearable computing" towards the end that will no doubt find it's way into the techno-blogosphere, but I found the insight about the organizational structure much more enlightening.

[via [kottke](http://kottke.org/12/04/valve-softwares-usual-approach-to-building-a-creative-business "Kottke - Valve Software's usual approach to building a creative business")]


